# CSCE-548-Project
This project is a basic N-tier application that creates and manages speedrun records. The database tracks Authors, Games, and Runs, where each run is related to a single author and game. Each author and game can be related to multiple runs.

This project consisted of two phases:
* The first phase consisted of designing and implementing the app using code generated by ChatGPT (AI usage was a requirement for the coding portion of this project), and intervening when necessary. Security was not a concern during this phase of the project.
* The second phase focused on cleaning up the code written by ChatGPT using concepts and techniques learned it class. It consisted of fixing security vulnerabilities and improving implementations when necessary.

This project was built using MySQL and Java (planning on migrating to Spring, change this if possible).

## Hosting with Fly.io

### Set up Fly.io
1. Navigate to https://fly.io/docs/hands-on/install-flyctl/ and install the flyctl CLI.
2. Authenticate in the terminal.

### Set up database container
1. Navigate to `<repository root>/database` to ensure you are using the database Dockerfile and fly.toml configuration.
2. Create the database container with `fly apps create speedrun-mysql`.
3. Create a container volume (necessary for persistent storage) with `fly volumes create mysql_data -r iad -n 1`.
4. Deploy the database container using `fly deploy` and wait for the deployment to finish.
   <br>a. Database creation scripts should run automatically during this stage -- if you find the database ends up empty you can use `fly ssh console` to SSH into the container and run these scripts manually in SQL (located in docker-entrypoint-initdb-d, root pass=rootpassword123).
5. Verify the app has been deployed using `fly apps list` and/or `fly status`.

### Set up API container
1. Navigate to `<repository root>/api` to ensure you are using the Spring Boot Dockerfile and fly.toml configuration.
2. Create the API container with `fly apps create speedrun-csce548`.
3. Deploy the API container using `fly deploy` and wait for the deployment to finish.
4. Use `fly logs` to examine the logs of the API as it starts up and runs.
5. Optionally, visit the URL `{{fly.io app url}}/health`; if the server is running, it should return a 200 OK.

### Set up website container
1. Navigate to `<repository root>/frontend` to ensure you are using the Angular Dockerfile and fly.toml configuration.
2. Create the website container with `fly apps create speedrun-csce548-fe`.
3. Deploy the website container using `fly deploy` and wait for the deployment to finish.
4. The website can be visited at https://speedrun-csce548-fe.fly.dev.